<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="hugo_configuration">
	<title>Configuration</title>

	<body>
		
		<p>The config.yaml, config.toml, and config.json are files that Hugo searches for configuration. Even better, you can break down the configurations into subfolders under a parent folder called config/. Your config/ folder can look like below:</p>

		<p>
			<screen>
				├── config
				│   ├── _default
				│   │   ├── config.toml
				│   │   ├── languages.toml
				│   │   ├── menus.en.toml
				│   │   ├── menus.zh.toml
				│   │   └── params.toml
				│   ├── production
				│   │   ├── config.toml
				│   │   └── params.toml
				│   └── staging
				│       ├── config.toml
				│       └── params.toml

			</screen>
		</p>

		<p>Note: The command *hugo server* uses _default/ for configuration and the command *hugo* uses production/ for configuration. To use staging/, run *hugo --environment staging* instead.</p>

		<p>You can also specify custom configuration file by using the --config flag:</p>

		<p>
			<screen>
				hugo --config debugconfig.toml
				hugo --config a.toml,b.toml,c.toml
			</screen>
		</p>
		
		<p>If your website contains multiple config files in different formats, Hugo gives them priority in the following order:</p>

		<pre>
			1. ./config.toml
			2. ./config.yaml
			3. ./config.json
		</pre>

		<p>Environment configuration is also available with Hugo. You can configure your website via environment variables which is useful for multiple deployments.</p>

		<p>Use HUGO_* for config options and HUGO_PARAMS_* for config params. All environmental variables used as keys must be in upper case.</p>

		<p><screen>$ env HUGO_TITLE="My Title" hugo</screen></p>

			
		<section>
			<title>Common Configuration Options</title>

			<p>Hugo offers a rich set of configuration options that can make development easy. Below are some of these configurations that you can configure:</p>

			<section>
				<title>baseURL</title>
				<p>This refers to your website url.</p>
			</section>

			<section>
				<title>contentDir</title>
				<p>This defaults to content.</p>
			</section>
		
			<section>
				<title>copyright</title>
				<p>Copyright notice typically displayed in the footer.</p>
			</section>

			<section>
				<title>enableRobotsTXT</title>
				<p>Configure the generation of <cmdname>robots.txt</cmdname> file here.</p>
			</section>

			<section>
				<title>paginate</title>
				<p>The number of posts to display per page. It defaults to <cmdname>10</cmdname>.</p>
			</section>

			<section>
				<title>publishDir</title>
				<p>Defaults to <cmdname>public/</cmdname>. This is the folder your static website will be written to if you run <cmdname>hugo</name>.</p>
			</section>

			<section>
				<title>theme</title>
				<p>Selects theme to use.</p>
			</section>

			<section>
				<title>title</title>
				<p>Title for website.</p>
			</section>

			<section>
				<title>watch</title>
				<p>Monitor the filesystem for changes. Defaults to <cmdname>false</cmdname>.</p>
			</section>

		</section>

		<related-links>
			<link format="html" href="https://gohugo.io/getting-started/configuration/
" scope="external">
				<linktext>Configuration options</linktext>
			</link>
		</related-links>

	</body>
</topic>
