<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="hugo_structure">
	<title>Structure</title>

	<body>
		<p>The structure of a Hugo website is simple to understand. This sections explains each folders and how they can be configured to suit your complex needs.</p>
		<p>
			<screen>
			.
			├── archetypes
			├── config.toml
			├── content
			├── data
			├── layouts
			├── static
			└── themes
			</screen>
		</p>
		
		<section>
			<title>archetypes</title>

			<p>All types of contents used by your Hugo websites are defined. They are basically templates on how posts should look like.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>config.toml</title>

			<p>You should edit this file before deployment as it contains vital information about your website. A typical config file looks like:</p>

			<p>
				<screen>
					baseURL = "https://example.org/"
					languageCode = "en-us"
					title = "My New Hugo Site"
					theme = "ananke"
				</screen>
			</p>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>content</title>

			<p>All contents for your website belong here. The sections and categories of your website determines how this folder can be structured.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>data</title>

			<p>Configuration files used by Hugo when generating your website are stored here. You can also create data templates here to generate data from dynamic contents.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>layouts</title>

			<p>HTML files that describe the appearance of your website are stored here. You should only edit these files if you know what you are doing.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>static</title>

			<p>All CSS, JavaScript, image, and other static files used by Hugo are stored here.</p>

		</section>

		<section>
			<title>themes</title>
			<p>All downloaded Hugo themes should be stored under this folder.</p>

		</section>

	</body>
</topic>
